Create Blog Post “restaurant-is-now-delivering-a-facebook-bot-in-node-js” (#1767)
Nexmo/deved-platform: content/blog/en/restaurant-is-now-delivering-a-facebook-bot-in-node-js.md

There must be a better, smarter way! Thankfully [I recently discovered my favorite food delivery app, Wolt, has an API](https://medium.com/analytics-vidhya/exploring-the-api-of-a-website-8579b04df28f) that lets me know if a restaurant is online. So using the Vonage Messages API, I created a Facebook Messenger Bot that will alert me when my favorite restaurant is back online!

*(This example is built around a use case of food delivery, but the same code can be repurposed to build a Facebook Bot that will alert users for any boolean case change.)*

## Prerequisites

This app requires the following:

* [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/)

<sign-up></sign-up>

> ## Pseudo Code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Pseudocode:
```

  } else {
      sendFacebookMessage(`Sorry, ${restaurant.name[0].value} is currently offline. I'll ping you when it's open again!`, req, res);
    }
}
```

The `sendStatusMessage` function has abstracted our Vonage code into a function called `sendFacebookMessage` :

```javascript
const sendFacebookMessage = async (text, req, res) => {
  vonage.channel.send(
    req.body.from,
    req.body.to,
    {
      content: {
        type: 'text',
        text: text,
      },
    },
    (err, data) => {
      if (err) {
        console.log(err);
      } else {
        console.log(data.message_uuid);
      }
     }
   );
 }
```

## Send a message to the user based on the restaurant status

And now combining our new functionality we can update our simple Sandbox Messaging to tell the user whether the requested restaurant is online or not.

```javascript
// Enhanced Sandbox Messaging
app.post('/inbound', async(req, res) => {
  const requestedRestaurant = await req.body.message.content.text.split('/').pop();
  const restaurant = await getRestaurant(requestedRestaurant);
  sendStatusMessage(restaurant, req, res);
  res.send('ok');
});
```

## Loop if the Restaurant is Offline

> Now that we've created the logic based on the restaurant's status, we want to continue to check that status until finally, the restaurant comes back online. So we know we need a function like this, which check the status every minute:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we've created the logic based on the restaurant's status, we want to continue checking that status until the restaurant finally comes back online. So we know we need a function like this, which check the status every minute:
```

```javascript
while(RESTAURANT_IS_OFFLINE.status){
 setInterval(await theLoop(), 600000);
}
```

> Now we know we need to create some sort of `RESTAURANT_IS_OFFLINE` global variable to store our restaurant information and we know we'll need to write a function called `theLoop` which will run our code every 60 seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we know we need to create a `RESTAURANT_IS_OFFLINE` global variable to store our restaurant information, and we know we'll need to write a function called `theLoop` that will run our code every 60 seconds.
```

So we'll add the global variable `RESTAURANT_IS_OFFLINE` with properties `status`, `count`, and `name`.

```javascript
let RESTAURANT_IS_OFFLINE = {
  status: true,
  count: 0,
  name: ""
};
```

We'll now need to update our `sendStatusMessage`. The new function will continue to check a restaurant based on its delivery status. However, it will now only send the offline status message if this is the first time its status is reported as offline.

```javascript
const sendStatusMessage = (restaurant, req, res) => {
  if (restaurant.online) {
    RESTAURANT_IS_OFFLINE.status = false;
    sendFacebookMessage(`Hey, ${restaurant.name[0].name.value} is now accepting orders!!`, req, res);
  } else {
    if (RESTAURANT_IS_OFFLINE.count == 0){
        sendFacebookMessage(`Sorry, ${restaurant.name[0].value} is currently offline. I'll ping you when it's open again!`, req, res);
    }
    RESTAURANT_IS_OFFLINE = {status: true, count: 1};
  }
}
```

And now we can complete our `theLoop` function:

```javascript
const theLoop = async () => {
  const restaurant = away getRestaurant(RESTAURANT_IS_OFFLINE.name);
  const status = restaurant.online;
  sendStatusMessage(status);
}
```

> And now we can run the program, seeing that when a restaurant is offline we receive a message notifying so, and when restaurants go online we are updated to the new status. I suggest trying the app in the morning and seeing as restaurants suddenly open for lunch. It's very fun to get the push notifications from Facebook Messenger to arrive on your phone!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we can run the program, seeing that when a restaurant is offline we receive a message notifying so, and when restaurants go online we are updated to the new status. I suggest trying the app in the morning and seeing as restaurants suddenly open for lunch. It's very fun to get the push notifications from Facebook Messenger to arrive on your phone!
```

## Some Code Clean Up

> Although the code above works, it will act erratically. This is because the intervalID which is returned from setInterval() is never cleared. ([Read more here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/setInterval)) We can do a few things to clean up our code. And we'll create the code which will also allow us to keep track of multiple requests and implement jobs in the future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although the code above works, it will act erratically. This is because the `intervalID` which is returned from `setInterval()` is never cleared. ([Read more here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/setInterval)) We can do a few things to clean up our code. And we'll create the code which will also allow us to keep track of multiple requests and implement jobs in the future.
```

		sendFacebookMessage(`Hey, ${CURRENT_RESTAURANT.name} is now accepting orders!!`, req);
	} else if (shouldPing) {
		sendFacebookMessage(`Sorry, ${CURRENT_RESTAURANT.name} is currently offline. I'll ping you when it's open again!`, req);
		shouldPing = false;
	}
}

const theLoop = async (req) => {
	const restaurant = await getRestaurant(CURRENT_RESTAURANT.name);
	setNewCurrentRestaurant(restaurant);
	sendStatusMessage(req);
	if (CURRENT_RESTAURANT.isOnline) {
		clearInterval(intervalId);
		intervalId = null;
	}
}
```

And lastly, our updated request looks like this:

```javascript
app.post('/inbound', async (req, res) => {
	const requestedRestaurant = await req.body.message.content.text.split('/').pop();
	const restaurant = await getRestaurant(requestedRestaurant);
	setNewCurrentRestaurant(restaurant);

	// When there is a new restaurant request, we set should Ping to true
	shouldPing = true;
	sendStatusMessage(req);

	// Start interval only if we havent yet started one
	if (!intervalId) {
		// Don't need to pass the entire req but it is simpler this way i believe
		intervalId = setInterval(await theLoop(req), TIMEOUT);
	}

	res.send('ok');
});
```

> Our final `index.js` file will look like this:

Reviewer: Id remove this and link to github. makes the blog a lot longer and if they are following along they will have the code already

		{
			content: {
				type: 'text',
				text: text,
			},
		},
		(err, data) => {
			if (err) {
				console.error(err);
			} else {
				console.log(data.message_uuid);
			}
		}
	);
}

const sendStatusMessage = (req) => {
	if (CURRENT_RESTAURANT.isOnline) {
		sendFacebookMessage(`Hey, ${CURRENT_RESTAURANT.name} is now accepting orders!!`, req);
	} else if (shouldPing) {
		sendFacebookMessage(`Sorry, ${CURRENT_RESTAURANT.name} is currently offline. I'll ping you when it's open again!`, req);
		shouldPing = false;
	}
}

const theLoop = async (req) => {
	const restaurant = await getRestaurant(CURRENT_RESTAURANT.name);
	setNewCurrentRestaurant(restaurant);
	sendStatusMessage(req);
	if (CURRENT_RESTAURANT.isOnline) {
		clearInterval(intervalId);
		intervalId = null;
	}
}

app.post('/inbound', async (req, res) => {
	const requestedRestaurant = await req.body.message.content.text.split('/').pop();
	const restaurant = await getRestaurant(requestedRestaurant);
	setNewCurrentRestaurant(restaurant);
	shouldPing = true;
	sendStatusMessage(req);
	if (!intervalId) {
		intervalId = setInterval(await theLoop(req), TIMEOUT);
	}
	res.send('ok');
});

app.listen(3000);
```

# What's Next

> * In this tutorial, we used the Facebook Messenger functionality of the Messages API but we could extend this application to provide omnichannel capabilities with WhatsApp and SMS. Imagine a very urgent use case (I have a particular bagel shop, on Saturday mornings in mind) that you would want to know immediately a status change, omnichannel alerts would be useful.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In this tutorial, we used the Facebook Messenger functionality of the Messages API, but we could extend this application to provide omnichannel capabilities with WhatsApp and SMS. Imagine a very urgent use case (I have a particular bagel shop on Saturday mornings in mind) that you would want to be immediately notified about a status change, omnichannel alerts would be useful.
```

* We could extend this code to make the alerts smarter based on delivery schedules, user proximity to restaurants, and more. We could also hold multiple jobs.
* We could take the app out of the Sandbox and connect it to a business Facebook Account.

> The final code for the tutorial can be found on GitHub.\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The final code for the tutorial can be found on GitHub.
```
 
missing link to github

> \

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
